adds the Spread-Operator file (#1345)
Techtonica/curriculum: javascript/Spread_operator.md

﻿# Spread Operator in javascript

## Projected time

About 30-40 minutes

- 15 min for spread operator
- 25 min for examples

## Spread operator
Spread operator allows an iterable such as strings, array and sets to spread or expand individually inside a receiver.

The **syntax** of spread operator is `var variable  = [...value]`.

## Why it is useful?
+ We can merge two objects together using spread operator.
Example:
```
let obj1 = {a: 1, b: 2, c: 3}
let obj2 = {d: 4, e: 5, f: 6}
let merge = {...obj1, ...obj2} // merge is {a: 1, b: 2, c: 3, d: 4, e: 5, f: 6}
```
+ Spread operator with object is used to make copy of existing object or to make a new object with properties.

## Examples

### Simple object

Given this ```todoApp``` object we can use the object spread syntax and its properties into variables.

```javaScript
function todoApp(state = initialState, action) {
 switch (action.type) {
   case SET_VISIBILITY_FILTER:

>       return { ...state, visibilityFilter: action.filter }

Reviewer: You should specify the `initialState` object attributes to make them clearly understand how spread operator works or you can change this example as it is clearly an example of reducers in react and that's not what you are trying to explain here. Use some other simple example.

﻿# Spread Operator in javascript

## Projected time

About 25-30 minutes

- 10 min for destructuring
- 20 min for examples

## Spread operator
Spread operator allows an iterable such as strings,array and sets to spread or expand individually inside a receiver.

> The **syntax** of spread operator is var variable  = [...value].

Reviewer 2: Also don't use `var`, use `const` if possible or, if not, `let`

## Why it is useful?
+ We can merge two objects together using spread operator.
Example:
```

> let obj1 = {a: 1, b: 2, c: 3}
> 
> let obj2 = {d: 4, e: 5, f: 6}
> 
> let merge = {...obj1, ...obj2} // merge is {a: 1, b: 2, c: 3, d: 4, e: 5, f: 6}

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
let obj1 = {a: 1, b: 2, c: 3}
let obj2 = {d: 4, e: 5, f: 6}
let merge = {...obj1, ...obj2} // merge is {a: 1, b: 2, c: 3, d: 4, e: 5, f: 6}
```

```
+ Spread operator with object is used to make copy of existing object or to make a new object with properties.

## Examples

### Simple object

Given this ```todoApp``` object we can use the object spread syntax and its properties into variables.

```javaScript

> function todoApp(state = initialState, action) {
> 
>   switch (action.type) {
>   
>     case SET_VISIBILITY_FILTER:
>     
>       return { ...state, visibilityFilter: action.filter }
>       
>     default:
>     
>       return state

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
function todoApp(state = initialState, action) {
  switch (action.type) {
    case SET_VISIBILITY_FILTER:
      return { ...state, visibilityFilter: action.filter }
    default:
      return state
```

  }
}
```

#### Code without using Spread operator

```javaScript 

> function todoApp(state = initialState, action) {
> 
>   switch (action.type) {
>   
>     case SET_VISIBILITY_FILTER:
>     
>       return Object.assign({}, state, {
>       
>         visibilityFilter: action.filter
>         
>       })
>      
>     default:
>     
>       return state

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
function todoApp(state = initialState, action) {
  switch (action.type) {
    case SET_VISIBILITY_FILTER:
      return Object.assign({}, state, {
        visibilityFilter: action.filter
      })
    default:
      return state
```

  }
}
```
### Arrays

#### normal array concat() method 

```javaScript
let arr = [1,2,3]; 
let arr2 = [4,5]; 
  
arr = arr.concat(arr2); 
  
console.log(arr); // [ 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 ] 
```

#### spread operator doing the concat job 

```javaScript
let arr = [1,2,3]; 
let arr2 = [4,5]; 
  
arr = [...arr,...arr2]; 
console.log(arr); // [ 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 ] 
```

#### spread operator for copying 

```javaScript 
let arr = ['a','b','c']; 
let arr2 = [...arr]; 
  
console.log(arr); // [ 'a', 'b', 'c' ] 
  
arr2.push('d'); //inserting an element at the end of arr2 
  
console.log(arr2); // [ 'a', 'b', 'c', 'd' ] 
console.log(arr); // [ 'a', 'b', 'c' ] 
```

#### copying without the spread operator 

```javaScript
let arr = ['a','b','c']; 
let arr2 = arr; 
  
console.log(arr2); // [ 'a', 'b', 'c' ] 

> ```

Reviewer 3: The code from line 72-114 is copied as it is from https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/javascript-spread-operator/
You need to cite the sources.

### Spread in object literals

It copies own enumerable properties from a provided object onto a new object.In object literals merging of objects is now possible using a shorter syntax than Object.assign().

```javaScript
const obj1 = { foo: 'bar', x: 42 };
const obj2 = { foo: 'baz', y: 13 };

const clonedObj = { ...obj1 };
// Object { foo: "bar", x: 42 }

const mergedObj = { ...obj1, ...obj2 };
// Object { foo: "baz", x: 42, y: 13 }
```

## Independent Practice

### Nested Object

Rewrite the following code using spread syntax.

```javaScript
const arr1 = ['a','b', 'c'];
const arr2 = ['a.foo', 'b.bar', 'c.baz'];

let result = {};

const insertAggs = (agg, result) => {

  while (result.aggs) {
    result = result.aggs
  }

  result.aggs = agg;
}

for (let i = 0; i < arr1.length; i++) {
  const aggName = arr1[i];
  const field = arr2[i];
  const agg = {
      [aggName]: {
        terms: {
          field
        }
      }
    };

  result.aggs ? insertAggs(agg, result) : result.aggs = agg;
}
}

> ```

Reviewer 3: This code seems copied from https://www.freecodecamp.org/forum/t/how-do-i-build-a-nested-object-in-javascript-dynamically/304543/3
So please cite the sources.

## Additional Materials

> - [Spread-Operator Quiz](https://javascript.info/rest-parameters-spread)

Reviewer 3: The link you mentioned is not a quiz. So either fix the link or the label.

> ﻿# Spread Operator in javascript

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
﻿# Spread Operator in JavaScript
```

## Projected time

About 30-40 minutes

- 15 min for spread operator
- 25 min for examples

## Spread operator

> Spread operator allows an iterable such as strings, array and sets to spread or expand individually inside a receiver.

Reviewer 4: objects too!

The **syntax** of spread operator is `var variable  = [...value]`.

## Why it is useful?
+ We can merge two objects together using spread operator.
Example:
```
let obj1 = {a: 1, b: 2, c: 3}
let obj2 = {d: 4, e: 5, f: 6}
let merge = {...obj1, ...obj2} // merge is {a: 1, b: 2, c: 3, d: 4, e: 5, f: 6}
```

> + Spread operator with object is used to make copy of existing object or to make a new object with properties.

Reviewer 4: I love these examples!  Can you: A. tell them to try it in the console or IDE or B. give the answer in a comment for all of them like line 21?

Reviewer 4: Include the answer here too, please.

## Examples

### Simple object

Given this object we can use the object spread syntax.

```javaScript
const obj = {
    name: 'AppDividend',
    author: 'Krunal Lathiya'
};
const combined = {
    ...obj,
    age: 25
};
console.log(combined);
```

### Arrays

#### normal array concat() method 

```javaScript
let arr = [1,2,3]; 
let arr2 = [4,5]; 
  
arr = arr.concat(arr2); 
  
console.log(arr); // [ 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 ] 
```

#### spread operator doing the concat job 

```javaScript
let arr = [1,2,3]; 
let arr2 = [4,5]; 
  
arr = [...arr,...arr2]; 
console.log(arr); // [ 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 ] 
```

#### spread operator for copying 

```javaScript 
let arr = ['a','b','c']; 
let arr2 = [...arr]; 
  
console.log(arr); // [ 'a', 'b', 'c' ] 
  
arr2.push('d'); //inserting an element at the end of arr2 
  
console.log(arr2); // [ 'a', 'b', 'c', 'd' ] 
console.log(arr); // [ 'a', 'b', 'c' ] 
```

#### copying without the spread operator 

```javaScript
let arr = ['a','b','c']; 
let arr2 = arr; 
  
console.log(arr2); // [ 'a', 'b', 'c' ] 
```
[From geeksforgeeks](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/javascript-spread-operator/)

### Spread in object literals

> It copies own enumerable properties from a provided object onto a new object.In object literals merging of objects is now possible using a shorter syntax than Object.assign().

Reviewer 4: Could you please provide a link for Object.assign()?  Apprentices won't know about it yet.

> It copies own enumerable properties from a provided object onto a new object.In object literals merging of objects is now possible using a shorter syntax than Object.assign().

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The spread operator copies enumerable properties from a provided object onto a new object.  In object literals, merging of objects is now possible using a shorter syntax than Object.assign().
```

> ```javaScript

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```JavaScript
```

const obj1 = { foo: 'bar', x: 42 };
const obj2 = { foo: 'baz', y: 13 };

const clonedObj = { ...obj1 };
// Object { foo: "bar", x: 42 }

const mergedObj = { ...obj1, ...obj2 };
// Object { foo: "baz", x: 42, y: 13 }
```

## Array slice method

> The slice() method returns the selected elements in an array, as a new array object.The slice() method selects the elements starting at the given start argument, and ends at, but does not include, the given end argument.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The `slice()` method returns the selected elements in an array as a new array object. The `slice()` method selects the elements starting at the given start argument, and ends at, but does not include, the given end argument.
```

The **syntax** of slice method is `array.slice(start, end)`.

> 

Reviewer 4: Please also provide examples of:
1. adding just one thing to the middle of an array
2. removing just one thing from the middle of an array

### The Slice method takes 2 arguments.

**1st Argument:** Specifies from where the selection should be started.

For Example:

```
var arr1 = [1,5,8,9];
arr1.slice(1); // [5,8,9]
From the first index (5) it will return the elements.
```

**2nd Argument:** Specifies at which level the endpoint should be. If you didn’t put this in the parenthesis while calling the slice method, it will return the elements from the starting index to the end of the array.

```
var arr1 = [1,5,8,9];
console.log(arr1.slice(1,3));
//[ 5, 8 ]
```

If you put a negative number while calling, the selection will be selected from the end of the array.

```
var arr1 = [1,5,8,9];
console.log(arr1.slice(-2));
//[ 8, 9 ]
```

Note: Slice always returns the selected elements from the array.

Slice won’t change the array. The array remains intact. See the below Example:

```
var arr1 = [1,5,8,9];
arr1.slice(2);
console.log(arr1);
// [ 1, 5, 8, 9 ]
```

> Even if you made some changes to the array it won’t affect it. It will return the original array as it is at the start.

Reviewer 4: This is excellent 🌟
Can you also mention with an example that for this reason, you need to assign the sliced array to a variable if you want to keep it?

Reviewer 4: Also, please put in a word about this AC: "how this relates to following an immutable coding style to always create new objects and never modify arrays in place"

Reviewer 4: You reiterated that it will not change, but please address: "how this relates to following an immutable coding style" and why you should " always create new objects and never modify arrays in place".  Not just that it is being done, but why.

Reviewer: @urbashi123 Please address this.

[From freecodecamp](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/lets-explore-slice-splice-spread-syntax-in-javascript-e242a6f21e60/)

## Independent Practice

### Nested Object

Rewrite the following code using spread syntax.

```javaScript
const arr1 = ['a','b', 'c'];
const arr2 = ['a.foo', 'b.bar', 'c.baz'];

let result = {};

> const insertAggs = (agg, result) => {

Reviewer 4: what's an agg? 😄

Reviewer 4: 🥚

Author: I have taken this example from freecodecamp and aggs  is written there.

Reviewer 4: huh.

  while (result.aggs) {
    result = result.aggs
  }

  result.aggs = agg;
}

for (let i = 0; i < arr1.length; i++) {
  const aggName = arr1[i];
  const field = arr2[i];
  const agg = {
      [aggName]: {
        terms: {
          field
        }
      }
    };

  result.aggs ? insertAggs(agg, result) : result.aggs = agg;
}
}
```
[from freecodecamp](https://www.freecodecamp.org/forum/t/how-do-i-build-a-nested-object-in-javascript-dynamically/304543/3)

> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## Challenge
```
Give them 2 word problems here, and tell them to write a function that uses spread, and one that uses slice to solve them. You are welcome to use problems you find as long as you cite the sources.

Author: I have already added some of the question in additional material. What can I add in challenges?

Reviewer 4: 1. tell them to write a function that uses spread as the solution
2.  tell them to write a function that uses slice as the solution

You don't need to make them up; but if you found it somewhere else, provide a link and say where it's from.

Reviewer 4: Awesome!  Please add this to the Projected Time, too.

﻿# Spread Operator in JavaScript

## Projected time

About 30-40 minutes

- 15 min for spread operator
- 25 min for examples

## Spread operator
Spread operator allows an iterable such as strings, objects, array and sets to spread or expand individually inside a receiver.

The **syntax** of spread operator is `[...value]`.

## Why it is useful?
+ We can merge two objects together using spread operator.
Example:
```
let obj1 = {a: 1, b: 2, c: 3}
let obj2 = {d: 4, e: 5, f: 6}
let merge = {...obj1, ...obj2} 
```
**Output:** merge is {a: 1, b: 2, c: 3, d: 4, e: 5, f: 6}

+ Spread operator with object is used to make copy of existing object or to make a new object with properties.

## Examples

### Simple object

Given this object we can use the object spread syntax.

```javaScript
const obj = {
    name: 'AppDividend',
    author: 'Krunal Lathiya'
};
const combined = {
    ...obj,
    age: 25
};

> console.log(combined);

Reviewer 4: include the answer here too, please.

```

### Arrays

#### normal array concat() method 

```javaScript
let arr = [1,2,3]; 
let arr2 = [4,5]; 
  
arr = arr.concat(arr2); 
  
console.log(arr); // [ 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 ] 
```

#### spread operator doing the concat job 

```javaScript
let arr = [1,2,3]; 
let arr2 = [4,5]; 
  
arr = [...arr,...arr2]; 
console.log(arr); // [ 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 ] 
```

#### spread operator for copying 

```javaScript 
let arr = ['a','b','c']; 
let arr2 = [...arr]; 
  
console.log(arr); // [ 'a', 'b', 'c' ] 
  
arr2.push('d'); //inserting an element at the end of arr2 
  
console.log(arr2); // [ 'a', 'b', 'c', 'd' ] 

> console.log(arr); // [ 'a', 'b', 'c' ] 

Reviewer: There is no need of line 78 here. And why have you written `console.log(arr)` twice.

Reviewer 4: I think this is OK... @urbashi123 is showing that the original array hasn't been changed.

```

#### copying without the spread operator 

```javaScript
let arr = ['a','b','c']; 
let arr2 = arr; 
  
console.log(arr2); // [ 'a', 'b', 'c' ] 
```
[From geeksforgeeks](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/javascript-spread-operator/)

### Spread in object literals

> The spread operator copies enumerable properties from a provided object onto a new object. In object literals,           merging of objects is now possible using a shorter syntax than Object.assign().
> [Object.assign()](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object/assign)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The spread operator copies enumerable properties from a provided object onto a new object. In object literals, merging of objects is now possible using a shorter syntax than [Object.assign()](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object/assign)
```

#### Using Splice to Remove Array Elements in JavaScript
The splice method can be used to add or remove elements from an array. The first argument specifies the location at which to begin adding or removing elements. The second argument specifies the number of elements to remove. The third and subsequent arguments are optional; they specify elements to be added to the array.

Here we use the splice method to remove two elements starting from position three (zero based index):
```
var arr = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 0];var removed = arr.splice(2,2);/*removed === [3, 4]arr === [1, 2, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 0]*/
```
An array containing the removed elements is returned by the splice method. You can see the removed array contains [3, 4] and the original array contains the remaining values.

The splice method can also be used to remove a range of elements from an array.
```
["bar", "baz", "foo", "qux"]list.splice(0, 2) // Starting at index position 0, remove two elements ["bar", "baz"] and retains ["foo", "qux"].
```

> 

Reviewer: @alodahl what is the need of these topics here? Because this tutorial is on Spread operator not on array methods.

Reviewer 4: Oh gosh, you are right.  Some of them do use the spread operator in the syntax, but @urbashi123 if the point doesn't involve spreading somehow, or adding it doesn't make sense, please remove that part and adjust the Projected Times.

Reviewer 4: line 73 and 74 are a good example of how spread can be included.

Author: So which part to keep from line 116 to 189? @Aayush-1999

Reviewer: Keep only those examples which are related to spread operator or which shows the use of spread operator in one way or the other.

```
var arr1 = [1,5,8,9];
console.log(arr1.slice(1,3));
//[ 5, 8 ]
```

If you put a negative number while calling, the selection will be selected from the end of the array.

```
var arr1 = [1,5,8,9];
console.log(arr1.slice(-2));
//[ 8, 9 ]
```

Note: Slice always returns the selected elements from the array.

Slice won’t change the array. The array remains intact. See the below Example:

```
var arr1 = [1,5,8,9];
arr1.slice(2);
console.log(arr1);
// [ 1, 5, 8, 9 ]
```

Even if you made some changes to the array it won’t affect it. It will return the original array as it is at the start.
[From freecodecamp](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/lets-explore-slice-splice-spread-syntax-in-javascript-e242a6f21e60/)

**Example:**
```
var myArray = ['a', 'b', 'c'];
var copyOfMyArray = myArray;
copyOfMyArray.splice(0, 1);
alert(myArray); // alerts ['b','c']
alert(copyOfMyArray); // alerts ['b','c']

var myNumber = 5;
var copyOfMyNumber = myNumber;
copyOfMyNumber = copyOfMyNumber - 1;
alert(myNumber); // alerts 5
alert(copyOfMyNumber); // alerts 4 
```       

> This code declares a variable `myArray` and sets it to an array value. It then declares a second variable `copyOfMyArray` and sets it to `myArray`. It performs an operation on `copyOfMyArray` and then alerts both `myArray` and `copyOfMyArray`. Somehow, when I perform an operation on `copyOfMyArray`, it appears that the same operation is performed on `myArray`.

Reviewer: @urbashi123 You shouldn't write `Somehow`, you need to properly state the reasons why the original array `myArray` also gets mutated on updating the `copyofmyarray`.

Reviewer: @urbashi123 Please address this.

[stackoverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/6612385/why-does-changing-an-array-in-javascript-affect-copies-of-the-array)

## Independent Practice

### Nested Object

Rewrite the following code using spread syntax.

```javaScript
const arr1 = ['a','b', 'c'];
const arr2 = ['a.foo', 'b.bar', 'c.baz'];

let result = {};

const insertAggs = (agg, result) => {

  while (result.aggs) {
    result = result.aggs
  }

  result.aggs = agg;
}

for (let i = 0; i < arr1.length; i++) {
  const aggName = arr1[i];
  const field = arr2[i];
  const agg = {
      [aggName]: {
        terms: {
          field
        }
      }
    };

  result.aggs ? insertAggs(agg, result) : result.aggs = agg;
}
}
```
[from freecodecamp](https://www.freecodecamp.org/forum/t/how-do-i-build-a-nested-object-in-javascript-dynamically/304543/3)

## Challenges
1. [Write a function that uses spread as the solution](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/es6/use-the-spread-operator-to-evaluate-arrays-in-place)

> 2. [Write a function that uses slice as the solution](https://curt-park.github.io/2018-09-13/algorithm-max-slice-sum/)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
2. [Write a function that uses slice as the solution](https://curt-park.github.io/2018-09-13/algorithm-max-slice-sum/).  (Note:  The example code here is in python, but you should still follow the directions).
```

Reviewer 4: You can simply click the "commit suggestion" button to incorporate the change.

### Example:
#### Add to the End of an Array Using push()

```
 var list = ["foo", "bar"];
  list.push("baz");
  ["foo", "bar", "baz"] //result

> ```

Reviewer: Remove these lines also.

#### Add to the Beginning of an Array Using unshift()
```
var list = ["foo", "bar"];
list.unshift("baz");

> ["baz", "foo", "bar"] // result

Reviewer: Remove these too.

Author: I have to remove just this two example or anything else?

Reviewer 4: https://github.com/Techtonica/curriculum/pull/1345#discussion_r428028465

}
}
```
[from freecodecamp](https://www.freecodecamp.org/forum/t/how-do-i-build-a-nested-object-in-javascript-dynamically/304543/3)

## Additional Materials

> - [Spread-Operator Quiz](https://www.codingame.com/playgrounds/7998/es6-tutorials-spread-operator-with-fun)

Reviewer 3: This link again is not a quiz, it's rather a playground. So either change the label to playground or change the link
